# PasturedPoultryEggProject

This is a project to document all the necessary parts for raising layer hens on pasture, and trying to optimize for profitability. It is not a strictly scientific paper, more a review of literature and a documentation of all the little details that are important for either raising pastured poultry for profit or experimental design involving pastured poultry.This is also an evolving document, supplemented by the rest of the files in this Git directory. I aim to document a more profitable method of raising poultry, following the results of my own trials and experiments.  

Small flocks of hens are often kept in rural Nova Scotia, free-range or small runs, and the eggs are marketed on roadside stands, usually using a cooler and the honour system for self-serve sales. These eggs are perceived to be healthier and, in fact, may be higher in vitamins and omega-3s.  Profitability is generally not a concern as most producers keep the birds as a hobby; however, I believe there is potential for a profitable enterprise. There are many online blogs and even some scientific papers on pastured laying hens. However, many of these assume that the reader is already a chicken farmer or is only keeping them for a hobby. Others give the basic idea, but leave the reader to work out the details. My objective here is a detailed explanation of what is needed to start up a pastured layer operation, common pitfalls or at least errors that I've made. Finally, I will try to keep advice based on real experiments and published research instead of arguing from "it worked for me, so it's the best" style rhetoric. 

A good place to start is in the PasturedEggsProject.pdf 
